Initial draft of qualtRics blog post (#364)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2022-08-02-working-with-qualtrics-data-importing/index.Rmd

---
title: 'Working with Qualtrics Data--Part 1: Importing Data'
author:
  - Jeffrey R. Stevens
date: '2022-08-02'
slug: working-with-qualtrics-data-importing
categories: []
tags:
  - API client
  - beginner
  - data import
  - qualtrics
  - qualtRics
  - survey data
package_version: 3.1.6
description: "This post summarizes how to use the qualtRics package to import Qualtrics data."
tweet: "Import your Qualtrics data with the qualtRics R package (post by @JeffStevensADML)!"
output:
  html_document:
    keep_md: yes
---

> 

Reviewer: Ah ha!  I think the image problem is an easy fix, looks like you missed the block of code we put at the top of Rmd files to make sure the figures stay with the post. Try adding this code, re-knit and see how the preview looks locally or online (push changes then click on the 'details' link of the final check on the Pull Request, it's labelled "netlify/ropensci/deploy-preview — Deploy Preview ready!")

```suggestion
```{r setup, include=FALSE}
# Options to have images saved in the post folder
# And to disable symbols before output
knitr::opts_chunk$set(fig.path = "", comment = "")

# knitr hook to make images output use Hugo options
knitr::knit_hooks$set(
  plot = function(x, options) {
    hugoopts <- options$hugoopts
    paste0(
      "{{<figure src=",
      '"', x, '" ',
      if (!is.null(hugoopts)) {
        glue::glue_collapse(
          glue::glue('{names(hugoopts)}="{hugoopts}"'),
          sep = " "
        )
      },
      ">}}\n"
    )
  }
)

# knitr hook to use Hugo highlighting options
knitr::knit_hooks$set(
  source = function(x, options) {
  hlopts <- options$hlopts
    paste0(
      "```r ",
      if (!is.null(hlopts)) {
      paste0("{",
        glue::glue_collapse(
          glue::glue('{names(hlopts)}={hlopts}'),
          sep = ","
        ), "}"
        )
      },
      "\n", glue::glue_collapse(x, sep = "\n"), "\n```\n"
    )
  }
)
```
```

But, most importantly, the qualtRics package allows you to download Qualtrics data into your R session. 
Therefore, you can write scripts that automatically import your Qualtrics data whenever you run your script. 
No more time wasted downloading manually!

### Connecting to Qualtrics

Of course, to get your data, you have to have access to your Qualtrics account. 
The [Qualtrics API](https://api.qualtrics.com/) allows you to connect to your Qualtrics account with your personal API token (or key) and your datacenter ID. 
You can [find your API token](https://api.qualtrics.com/ZG9jOjg3NjYzMg-api-key-authentication) by logging into Qualtrics, going to _Account Settings_, selecting the _Qualtrics IDs_ tab, finding the _API_ box, clicking _Generate Token_, and copying the long string of random letters and numbers shown next to _Token_. 
Note this key is like your password for accessing your account, so don't share it with others.

<!--html_preserve-->
{{< figure src = "qualtrics_api_token.png" width = "800" alt = "An image of the Qualtrics ID page with an example token in the API box highlighted with a red rectangle." class = "center" >}}

> <!--/html_preserve-->

Reviewer: Hey @maelle, do you have any idea why the <!--html_preserve--> tag is rendering as `preserved7d2b3fef0338002`? I checked with older index.Rmd files which had correctly rendered index.md files (e.g., `2021-11-23-cffr`) and they also now render as `preservedXXXXXXX`. 

Presumable this is a change in RMarkdown, but my web search skills have failed me. This might also be related to the issue I raised in my other blog review with `gt()` output.

---

> title: 'Working with Qualtrics Data--Part 1: Importing Data'

Reviewer 2: @steffilazerte I made changes to the theme on the default branch so that yes it will give a long em dash. To see this in the preview @JeffreyRStevens you'd need to rebase the PR.

Thanks for making me realize we needed to fix this in the theme!

> title: 'Working with Qualtrics Data--Part 1: Importing Data'

Reviewer 2: Oops I see where I was mentioned now, sorry!

> title: 'Working with Qualtrics Data--Part 1: Importing Data'

Author: OK, so @maelle's fix addresses this, and I can leave it as is, correct?

author:

>   - Jeffrey R. Stevens

Author: Done. Let me know if that works now.

date: '2022-08-02'
slug: working-with-qualtrics-data-importing
categories: []
tags:
  - API client
  - beginner
  - community
  - data import
  - package
  - qualtrics

>   - survey data

Author: * I've added excluder to the tags.
* The tweet looks great! Thanks!

Fortunately, two R packages ([qualtRics](https://docs.ropensci.org/qualtRics/)[^1] and [excluder](https://docs.ropensci.org/excluder/)[^2]) can make importing data and excluding low-quality data easier. 

Discovering the qualtRics package has saved me a lot of time importing data. It also lets me create data pipelines for sensitive data by reading files directly into R without saving them locally until they've been deidentified. So I don't accidentally save personally identifiable information in a place that is not authorized for sensitive data. 

After importing data, there is often a lot of clean up that needs to happen, especially for online survey respondents. I developed the excluder package to help with removing data entries based on broad metadata such as response duration, respondent location, screen resolution, etc. Combining the qualtRics and excluder packages can help you quickly get to the fun part of data analysis!

Part 1 of this series will show you how to use qualtRics to import your data, and we'll cover excluding your data with excluder in Part 2. 

## Importing Qualtrics data into R

> If you've worked with Qualtrics data before, you know you have to log into Qualtrics, navigate to the data section, wait for all of the data to be 're-indexed' for viewing, choose whether to export as numeric or character values, choose what type of file to export, download the data file, find the downloaded data file, change the name of the file to something comprehensible, and delete those first two obnoxious rows of metadata. 

Reviewer: Otherwise quotes are funny ([see @maelle's and my discussion](https://github.com/ropensci/roweb3/issues/367))
```suggestion
If you've worked with Qualtrics data before, you know you have to log into Qualtrics, navigate to the data section, wait for all of the data to be "re-indexed" for viewing, choose whether to export as numeric or character values, choose what type of file to export, download the data file, find the downloaded data file, change the name of the file to something comprehensible, and delete those first two obnoxious rows of metadata. 
```

Having to go through this process manually every time that you want to download Qualtrics data can be cumbersome and time consuming.

```{=html}

> {{< figure src = "mouseclicking.gif" width = "400" alt = "A gif of a hand furiously clicking a computer mouse." class = "center" >}}

Author: This is from Giphy, and it doesn't give a license. So I added a caption with the source and link. I've added captions with sources to all images now.

To avoid having to rerun the command, you can store your API token and base URL on your local computer by using `install = TRUE`. 
Including this argument will save the API token and base URL information in your `.Renviron` file, which is read when starting every new R session. 
```{r eval = FALSE}
qualtrics_api_credentials(api_key = "<YOUR-QUALTRICS_API_TOKEN>", 
                          base_url = "<YOUR-QUALTRICS_BASE_URL>",
                          install = TRUE)
```

Now you'll either need to restart your R session or reload your environment with `readRenviron("~/.Renviron")` to make the credentials accessible in the current R session.

If you use `install = TRUE`, this means that your credentials are stored in a plain text file on your computer. 
So this may not be something that you want to do on a shared computer account. 
You must decide between the security of not storing credentials on your computer and the convenience of not having to enter your credentials for every new R session.

```{=html}

> {{< figure src = "security_convenience.jpg" width = "400" alt = "Meme with hand hovering over two red buttons, one reading Security and the other reading Convenience." class = "center" >}}

Author: This is a meme that I created, so I don't think that we need attribution, but I gave the source as me and where I built the meme.
